📊 Trader Sentiment Analysis

This project analyzes trader behavior by combining historical trading data with market sentiment indicators such as the Fear & Greed Index.

The objective is to understand how leverage usage, trade frequency, and performance consistency vary across different market sentiment regimes.


🧠 Methodology

The dataset was cleaned, standardized, and preprocessed to ensure analytical consistency.

A new feature called leverage was derived using:

df['leverage'] = df['size_usd'] / df['collateral_usd']

Leverage Formula:

Leverage = Size (USD) / Collateral (USD)

Traders were segmented into:

1. High vs Low Leverage traders

2. Frequent vs Infrequent traders

3. Consistent vs Inconsistent performers

Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) was conducted using aggregated statistics and visualization techniques to compare:

1. Average PnL

2. Trade frequency

3. Leverage distribution

Sentiment regime impact

📊 Key Insights

* High Leverage traders exhibit higher return volatility, especially during Fear periods.

* Frequent traders perform better during Greed/stable markets, but overtrading during Fear regimes reduces consistency.

* Consistent winners maintain moderate leverage and controlled trade frequency, indicating strong risk discipline.

* Market sentiment significantly influences behavior — leverage usage increases during Greed phases and becomes unstable during Fear phases.

🚀 Strategy Recommendations

1. Dynamic Leverage Control Rule

2. During Fear periods, reduce leverage exposure for high-leverage traders.

3. Maintain leverage below 5x to minimize drawdown risk and prevent liquidation cascades.


Adaptive Trade Frequency Rule:

1. Increase trade activity during stable/Greed conditions.

2. Reduce frequency during high-volatility Fear regimes.

3. Focus on disciplined execution rather than overtrading.

🎯 Conclusion :

Behavioral segmentation combined with sentiment analysis provides actionable trading insights. Risk-adjusted leverage management and adaptive trade frequency significantly improve performance stability.
